>>> WELCOME BACK TO "HARDBALL."
>>> WELCOME BACK TO "HARDBALL." REPORTS REPORT THAT PRESIDENT
REPORTS REPORT THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP INTERVENED IN SECURITY
TRUMP INTERVENED IN SECURITY SCLEERNSS FOR HIS DAUGHTER
SCLEERNSS FOR HIS DAUGHTER IVANKA AND SON-IN-LAW JARED AND
IVANKA AND SON-IN-LAW JARED AND PROVIDED NEW INFORMATION FOR THE
PROVIDED NEW INFORMATION FOR THE COMMITTEES TO LOOK INTO.
COMMITTEES TO LOOK INTO. ELIJAH CUMMINGS THREAT
ELIJAH CUMMINGS THREAT ANTICIPATED TO SUBPOENA THE
ANTICIPATED TO SUBPOENA THE WHITE HOUSE FOR DOCUMENTS
WHITE HOUSE FOR DOCUMENTS RELATED TO THE CLEARANCE
RELATED TO THE CLEARANCE PROTOCOL.
PROTOCOL. THE LETTER TO CUMMINGS CALLED
THE LETTER TO CUMMINGS CALLED THE REQUEST OVERLY INTRUSIVE AND
THE REQUEST OVERLY INTRUSIVE AND WE WILL NOT CONCEDE THE
WE WILL NOT CONCEDE THE EXECUTIVE’S CONSTITUTIONAL
EXECUTIVE’S CONSTITUTIONAL PREROGATIVES.
PREROGATIVES. IN A STATEMENT BACK COUPLE,S
IN A STATEMENT BACK COUPLE,S RESPONDED THERE’S A KEY
RESPONDED THERE’S A KEY DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A PRESIDENT
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A PRESIDENT WHO EXERCISES HIS AUTHORITY
WHO EXERCISES HIS AUTHORITY UNDER THE CONSTITUTION AND A
UNDER THE CONSTITUTION AND A PRESIDENT WHO OVERRULES CAREER
PRESIDENT WHO OVERRULES CAREER EXPERTS AND TOP ADVISERS TO
EXPERTS AND TOP ADVISERS TO BENEFIT FAMILY MEMBERS AND
BENEFIT FAMILY MEMBERS AND CONCEALS HIS ACTIONS FROM THE
CONCEALS HIS ACTIONS FROM THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
AMERICAN PEOPLE. I’M JOINED NOW BY LEON PANETTA,
I’M JOINED NOW BY LEON PANETTA, FORMER DIRECTOR OF THE CIA,
FORMER DIRECTOR OF THE CIA, DEFENSE DEPARTMENT SECRETARY,
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT SECRETARY, FORMER CONGRESSMAN AND FORMER
FORMER CONGRESSMAN AND FORMER CHIEF OF STAFF TO PRESIDENT
CHIEF OF STAFF TO PRESIDENT CLINTON.
CLINTON. THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MR.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MR. PANETTA.
PANETTA. WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF WATCHING
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF WATCHING THIS WHOLE -- YOU HAVE BEEN
THIS WHOLE -- YOU HAVE BEEN THROUGH PROCEDURAL ARGUMENTS
THROUGH PROCEDURAL ARGUMENTS ABOUT CLEARANCES AND WHO GETS
ABOUT CLEARANCES AND WHO GETS THE I.D. TO WALK AROUND THE
THE I.D. TO WALK AROUND THE WHITE HOUSE AND TOP SECURITY
WHITE HOUSE AND TOP SECURITY CLEARANCE, WHAT DOES IT TELL YOU
CLEARANCE, WHAT DOES IT TELL YOU WHEN THE FBI SAYS NO TO TWO
WHEN THE FBI SAYS NO TO TWO APPLICANTS?
APPLICANTS? >> WELL, IT IS ABOUT NATIONAL
>> WELL, IT IS ABOUT NATIONAL SECURITY.
SECURITY. THAT’S THE REASON WE PROVIDE
THAT’S THE REASON WE PROVIDE SECURITY CLEARANCES IS TO MAKE
SECURITY CLEARANCES IS TO MAKE SURE THAT WHEN IT COMES TO
SURE THAT WHEN IT COMES TO HIGHLY CLASSIFIED INFORMATION,
HIGHLY CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, THAT YOU ARE NOT ALLOWING
THAT YOU ARE NOT ALLOWING SOMEONE WHO COULD BE A RISK TO
SOMEONE WHO COULD BE A RISK TO BE ABLE TO RECEIVE THAT
BE ABLE TO RECEIVE THAT INFORMATION.
INFORMATION. AND, LOOK, THIS KIND OF
AND, LOOK, THIS KIND OF INFORMATION IS PUT TOGETHER BY
INFORMATION IS PUT TOGETHER BY CIA OFFICERS AND SOURCES THAT
CIA OFFICERS AND SOURCES THAT ARE PUTTING THEIR LIVES ON THE
ARE PUTTING THEIR LIVES ON THE LINE IN ORDER TO BRING THIS
LINE IN ORDER TO BRING THIS INFORMATION TO THE ATTENTION OF
INFORMATION TO THE ATTENTION OF THE PRESIDENT AND THOSE AROUND
THE PRESIDENT AND THOSE AROUND HIM.
HIM. TO ALLOW SOMEBODY WHO IS A RISK,
TO ALLOW SOMEBODY WHO IS A RISK, A SECURITY RISK, TO ACCESS TO
A SECURITY RISK, TO ACCESS TO THAT KIND OF INFORMATION IS TO
THAT KIND OF INFORMATION IS TO NOT ONLY COMPROMISE THAT
NOT ONLY COMPROMISE THAT INFORMATION, IT IS REALLY
INFORMATION, IT IS REALLY PUTTING OUR NATIONAL SECURITY AT
PUTTING OUR NATIONAL SECURITY AT RISK ITSELF.
RISK ITSELF. THAT NO PRESIDENT OUGHT TO BE
THAT NO PRESIDENT OUGHT TO BE ALLOWED TO DO.
ALLOWED TO DO. >> WHAT’S YOUR SUSPICION HERE,
>> WHAT’S YOUR SUSPICION HERE, IS THAT THAT JARED IS TOO CLOSE
IS THAT THAT JARED IS TOO CLOSE TO NETANYAHU’S GOVERNMENT, TOO
TO NETANYAHU’S GOVERNMENT, TOO CLOSE TO KHASHOGGI?
CLOSE TO KHASHOGGI? THAT SOUND IRONIC THAT BOTH OF
THAT SOUND IRONIC THAT BOTH OF THEM WOULD BE TOO CLOSE TO HIM.
THEM WOULD BE TOO CLOSE TO HIM. IS IT FAIR HE WOULD GIVE AWAY
IS IT FAIR HE WOULD GIVE AWAY THE STUFF, GIVE AWAY THE
THE STUFF, GIVE AWAY THE INFORMATION PEOPLE WERE
INFORMATION PEOPLE WERE NEGOTIATING WITH, IS THAT A
NEGOTIATING WITH, IS THAT A FEAR?
FEAR? >> THERE IS A SECURITY CLEARANCE
>> THERE IS A SECURITY CLEARANCE PROCESS AND IT INVOLVES THE
PROCESS AND IT INVOLVES THE PERSONNEL SECURITY OFFICER IN
PERSONNEL SECURITY OFFICER IN THE WHITE HOUSE, WHICH
THE WHITE HOUSE, WHICH INVESTIGATES AND DOES A
INVESTIGATES AND DOES A BACKGROUND CHECK ON ANYONE WHO’S
BACKGROUND CHECK ON ANYONE WHO’S SUPPOSED TO GET A SECURITY
SUPPOSED TO GET A SECURITY CLEARANCE.
CLEARANCE. OBVIOUSLY THEY REGISTERED
OBVIOUSLY THEY REGISTERED CONCERNS.
CONCERNS. WHAT THOSE CONCERNS ARE, I DON’T
WHAT THOSE CONCERNS ARE, I DON’T KNOW.
KNOW. I ASSUME IT’S RELATED TO HIS
I ASSUME IT’S RELATED TO HIS CONTACTS NOT ONLY WITH THE
CONTACTS NOT ONLY WITH THE RUSSIANS BUT WITH OTHER FOREIGN
RUSSIANS BUT WITH OTHER FOREIGN DIGNITARIES AS WELL.
DIGNITARIES AS WELL. SO BECAUSE OF THAT CONCERN, THAT
SO BECAUSE OF THAT CONCERN, THAT THAT INFORMATION COULD BE
THAT INFORMATION COULD BE JEOPARDIZED, THE RECOMMENDATION
JEOPARDIZED, THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE FBI AND THE SECURITY
OF THE FBI AND THE SECURITY OFFICE WAS NOT TO GIVE HIM A
OFFICE WAS NOT TO GIVE HIM A CLEARANCE.
CLEARANCE. JOHN KELLY AND COUNSEL McGHAN,
JOHN KELLY AND COUNSEL McGHAN, OBVIOUSLY WOULD HAVE THROWN THE
OBVIOUSLY WOULD HAVE THROWN THE BALL BY THE PRESIDENT IN THE
BALL BY THE PRESIDENT IN THE HOPE THAT THEY WOULD BYPASS, AND
HOPE THAT THEY WOULD BYPASS, AND THE FBI DID NOT DO THAT AND
THE FBI DID NOT DO THAT AND INSTEAD WROTE MEMOS TO THE
INSTEAD WROTE MEMOS TO THE RECORD ABOUT WHY THEY WERE NOT
RECORD ABOUT WHY THEY WERE NOT GOING ALLOW THAT TO PROCEED.
GOING ALLOW THAT TO PROCEED. AND THE PRESIDENT WENT AROUND
AND THE PRESIDENT WENT AROUND THEM AND ALLOWED THAT SECURITY
THEM AND ALLOWED THAT SECURITY CLEARANCE TO HAPPEN.
CLEARANCE TO HAPPEN. THAT SHOULD NOT HAPPEN.
THAT SHOULD NOT HAPPEN. I THINK THE CONGRESS, IF IT’S
I THINK THE CONGRESS, IF IT’S GOING TO LOOK AT ANYTHING, HAS
GOING TO LOOK AT ANYTHING, HAS TO LOOK AT HOW DO YOU MAKE SURE
TO LOOK AT HOW DO YOU MAKE SURE THAT WHEN THERE IS A SECURITY
THAT WHEN THERE IS A SECURITY RISK, THAT THE FBI AND THE
RISK, THAT THE FBI AND THE SECURITY PEOPLE MAKE THAT CALL,
SECURITY PEOPLE MAKE THAT CALL, NOT THE PRESIDENT OR ANYBODY
NOT THE PRESIDENT OR ANYBODY ELSE.
ELSE. >> WHAT WOULD IT MEAN TO YOU --
>> WHAT WOULD IT MEAN TO YOU -- I’M NOT ASKING IF YOU HAVE HAD
I’M NOT ASKING IF YOU HAVE HAD TO DO IT, BUT YOU HAVE BEEN
TO DO IT, BUT YOU HAVE BEEN CHIEF OF STAFF TO THE PRESIDENT,
CHIEF OF STAFF TO THE PRESIDENT, KEEP THINGS GOING.
KEEP THINGS GOING. IF YOU HAD TO WRITE A MEMO TO
IF YOU HAD TO WRITE A MEMO TO YOURSELF FOR THE RECORD IF YOU
YOURSELF FOR THE RECORD IF YOU DID SOMETHING YOU REALLY DIDN’T
DID SOMETHING YOU REALLY DIDN’T WANT TO DO, IS THAT WHAT THEY
WANT TO DO, IS THAT WHAT THEY WERE SAYING?
WERE SAYING? I DID SOMETHING I DIDN’T WANT TO
I DID SOMETHING I DIDN’T WANT TO DO?
DO? >> WELL, LOOK, I THINK IT’S
>> WELL, LOOK, I THINK IT’S FOR -- IT’S FOR THE HISTORICAL
FOR -- IT’S FOR THE HISTORICAL CASE, I’M SURE, THAT BOTH OF
CASE, I’M SURE, THAT BOTH OF THEM WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT
THEM WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT WHEN HISTORY COMES BACK, IF THEY
WHEN HISTORY COMES BACK, IF THEY FOUND THAT INFORMATION WAS
FOUND THAT INFORMATION WAS JEOPARDIZED BECAUSE OF ALLOWING
JEOPARDIZED BECAUSE OF ALLOWING THIS SECURITY CLEARANCE, THAT
THIS SECURITY CLEARANCE, THAT THEY WOULD NOT BEAR THE BRUNT OF
THEY WOULD NOT BEAR THE BRUNT OF BLAME FOR HAVING GRANTED IT.
BLAME FOR HAVING GRANTED IT. SO I THINK THAT WAS THE REASON
SO I THINK THAT WAS THE REASON THEY DID IT.
THEY DID IT. I HAVE NEVER HAD TO DO THAT,
I HAVE NEVER HAD TO DO THAT, THANK GOD, BUT CLEARLY, I THINK
THANK GOD, BUT CLEARLY, I THINK WHAT WAS BEHIND THIS WAS TO TRY
WHAT WAS BEHIND THIS WAS TO TRY TO PROTECT THEIR OWN REPUTATION
TO PROTECT THEIR OWN REPUTATION WITH REGARDS TO THIS SECURITY
WITH REGARDS TO THIS SECURITY CLEARANCE.
CLEARANCE. >> SPEAKING OF SECURITY, HERE’S
>> SPEAKING OF SECURITY, HERE’S A BIG QUESTION, MEANWHILE
A BIG QUESTION, MEANWHILE PRESIDENT TRUMP RESPONDED TO NEW
PRESIDENT TRUMP RESPONDED TO NEW EVIDENCE TODAY, HE DID, THAT THE
EVIDENCE TODAY, HE DID, THAT THE NORTH KOREA IS REBUILDING A KEY
NORTH KOREA IS REBUILDING A KEY MISSILE SITE POSSIBLY IN
MISSILE SITE POSSIBLY IN PREPARATION FOR ANOTHER TEST.
PREPARATION FOR ANOTHER TEST. NBC NEWS REPORTS TONIGHT THE
NBC NEWS REPORTS TONIGHT THE SATELLITE IMAGES OF THE SITE --
SATELLITE IMAGES OF THE SITE -- THERE THEY ARE -- TAKING JUST
THERE THEY ARE -- TAKING JUST TWO DAYS AFTER TRUMP ACE FAILED
TWO DAYS AFTER TRUMP ACE FAILED NUCLEAR SUMMIT WITH KIM JONG-UN
NUCLEAR SUMMIT WITH KIM JONG-UN SHOWS THE REGIME IS QUICKLY
SHOWS THE REGIME IS QUICKLY WORKING TO REBUILD A SITE USED
WORKING TO REBUILD A SITE USED TO LAUNCH LONG-RANGE MISSILES
TO LAUNCH LONG-RANGE MISSILES AND AT GUESS WHO?
AND AT GUESS WHO? PRESIDENT TRUMP SAID HIS FIRST
PRESIDENT TRUMP SAID HIS FIRST MEETING WITH KIM IN SINGAPORE
MEETING WITH KIM IN SINGAPORE LAST JUNE.
LAST JUNE. HOWEVER, HERE’S THE PRESIDENT
HOWEVER, HERE’S THE PRESIDENT TODAY TRYING TO EXPLAIN IT.
TODAY TRYING TO EXPLAIN IT. >> IT’S TOO EARLY TO SAY, BUT WE
>> IT’S TOO EARLY TO SAY, BUT WE HAVE TO SOLVE A PROBLEM.
HAVE TO SOLVE A PROBLEM. WE HAVE A VERY NASTY PROBLEM
WE HAVE A VERY NASTY PROBLEM THERE.
THERE. WE HAVE TO SOLVE A PROBLEM.
WE HAVE TO SOLVE A PROBLEM. THE RELATIONSHIP IS GOOD.
THE RELATIONSHIP IS GOOD. I WOULD BE VERY DISAPPOINTED IF
I WOULD BE VERY DISAPPOINTED IF THAT WERE HAPPENING.
THAT WERE HAPPENING. IT’S A VERY EARLY REPORT.
IT’S A VERY EARLY REPORT. WE’RE THE ONES WHO PUT IT OUT.
WE’RE THE ONES WHO PUT IT OUT. BUT I WOULD BE VERY, VERY
BUT I WOULD BE VERY, VERY DISAPPOINTED IN CHAIRMAN KIM,
DISAPPOINTED IN CHAIRMAN KIM, AND I DON’T THINK I WILL BE BUT
AND I DON’T THINK I WILL BE BUT WE WILL SEE WHAT HAPPENS.
WE WILL SEE WHAT HAPPENS. WE WILL TAKE A LOOK.
WE WILL TAKE A LOOK. IT WILL ULTIMATELY GET SOLVED.
IT WILL ULTIMATELY GET SOLVED. >> MR. PANETTA, BY THE WAY, YOU
>> MR. PANETTA, BY THE WAY, YOU MISSED THIS, THERE’S THE
MISSED THIS, THERE’S THE PRESIDENT SAYING THAT APPEASING
PRESIDENT SAYING THAT APPEASING LINE OF HIS, WITH A BRONZE
LINE OF HIS, WITH A BRONZE WINSTON CHURCHILL BEHIND HIM ON
WINSTON CHURCHILL BEHIND HIM ON A SHELF.
A SHELF. HERE HE IS JUSTIFYING KIM
HERE HE IS JUSTIFYING KIM JONG-UN’S BEHAVIOR WITH WINSTON
JONG-UN’S BEHAVIOR WITH WINSTON CHURCHILL BEHIND HIM.
CHURCHILL BEHIND HIM. HE DOESN’T SEEM TO GET THE FIST
HE DOESN’T SEEM TO GET THE FIST CONNECTED IF WE CALL IT THAT.
CONNECTED IF WE CALL IT THAT. YOUR THOUGHTS, WHY IS HE
YOUR THOUGHTS, WHY IS HE COVERING FOR KIM?
COVERING FOR KIM? >> YOU KNOW WHAT, THIS WHOLE
>> YOU KNOW WHAT, THIS WHOLE THING WAS HAYWIRE FROM THE
THING WAS HAYWIRE FROM THE BEGINNING, TO THINK THAT SOMEHOW
BEGINNING, TO THINK THAT SOMEHOW HE AND KIM COULD SIT DOWN AND
HE AND KIM COULD SIT DOWN AND PULL OFF AN AGREEMENT THAT WOULD
PULL OFF AN AGREEMENT THAT WOULD DENUCLEARIZE NORTH KOREA WAS, I
DENUCLEARIZE NORTH KOREA WAS, I THINK, A BASIC MISTAKE AND A
THINK, A BASIC MISTAKE AND A CRITICAL MISTAKE BY THE
CRITICAL MISTAKE BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. AND IT’S PROVEN TO BE A MISTAKE
AND IT’S PROVEN TO BE A MISTAKE BECAUSE THIS WHOLE SUMMITRY
BECAUSE THIS WHOLE SUMMITRY BETWEEN THE TWO OF THEM HAS
BETWEEN THE TWO OF THEM HAS BASICALLY FLOPPED, IT’S A
BASICALLY FLOPPED, IT’S A DISASTER.
DISASTER. AND THE NORTH KOREANS NOW HAVE
AND THE NORTH KOREANS NOW HAVE GONE AHEAD AND STARTED TO
GONE AHEAD AND STARTED TO IMPROVE THEIR MISSILE SITE WITH
IMPROVE THEIR MISSILE SITE WITH A CLEAR MESSAGE THAT THEY MAY
A CLEAR MESSAGE THAT THEY MAY VERY WELL GO AHEAD AND TEST
VERY WELL GO AHEAD AND TEST ANOTHER ICBM.
ANOTHER ICBM. AND THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
AND THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES IS NOW STUCK BECAUSE HE’S
STATES IS NOW STUCK BECAUSE HE’S GIVEN KIM A WORLD STAGE, HE’S
GIVEN KIM A WORLD STAGE, HE’S GIVEN HIM A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF
GIVEN HIM A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF CREDIBILITY AS A WORLD LEADER BY
CREDIBILITY AS A WORLD LEADER BY VIRTUE OF THESE MEETINGS.
VIRTUE OF THESE MEETINGS. HE’S LOST LEVERAGE IN THAT
HE’S LOST LEVERAGE IN THAT RELATIONSHIP.
RELATIONSHIP. SO THE PRESIDENT ONE WAY OR
SO THE PRESIDENT ONE WAY OR ANOTHER HAS TO REGAIN SOME
ANOTHER HAS TO REGAIN SOME LEVERAGE HERE.
LEVERAGE HERE. I DON’T KNOW HOW HE’S GOING TO
I DON’T KNOW HOW HE’S GOING TO DO IT BUT HE CAN’T JUST DO IT BY
DO IT BUT HE CAN’T JUST DO IT BY BEING NICE TO KIM.